---
title: Why I Suggest Going Indie
author: SRWeaver
tags: americancomics culturewars cliques
---
I can't in good conscience recommend submitting to American comic book publishers, and the reason is even before the Trump years, the comic community in general has always been extremely toxic. And this also includes webcomic websites, although there are less toxic websites. These days I personally opt for hosting it on my own website, mainly because I want to keep my website in case a place shuts down, but also some of the most passive aggressive people tend to make their homes on webcomic sites, and continued to remain despite Writing Forums no longer being in vogue.

But things seem to have gotten worse after the Trump years, with even webcomic communities being sharply split between Hard Left and Hard Right communities. Wherever there is a nerd fandom, the toxic LGBT community and Anti-LGBT seems to follow. There may be some communities I don't know about, but sense so much of the US industry is based around crowdfunding and youtube advertisement, this means that you have a bunch of new people going into it, that aren't necessarily into the craft of graphic novels, but simply want to make lots of money, despite comics being as bad as writing in terms of chances of actually getting rich off your work.

What I would recommend is posting your work on deviantart websites that are not currently set in the US, and also to publish your webcomics on your own website. My recommendation is to choose a host that isn't sharply divided based on the culture war dynamics that seem to bleed in every place where there is a geek and nerd community, that think they know know how to teach comics, without necessarily being more experts on the topic.

When you make your own website, you can go with your own custom webcomic layout, because you don't have people demanding that you exclusively draw your work in left to right reading order. Which is less of an issue in Manga as it is in comics, which despite calling themselves manga, there is a specific "Amerimanga" publisher that I'm thinking of, that operates more like a webcomic community.

Which is OK, but if your a webcomic community, then you need to present yourself as a webcomic community. There is a disturbing rise of places that seem to scalp webcomic creators, and their discord servers seem to strongly reflect this reality. In one almost all the creators from their original run opted to leave the magazine, because the community was to toxic. And I can't help by suspect all similar business models are like this, no matter what side of politics they seem to lean.

In particular be wary of ones that seem to deal out selective or preferential treatment to their creators, or seem to have clear preferences that don't always benefit the artist or writer: in particular in a lot of discord servers, people of equivalent talent and skill sometimes have extremely inconsistent critique of their work. For example it's fairly well known at this point I'm trying to learn French and Japanese for my science fiction setting, and I even had to go so far as to publish my Fraponic World Building just to turn off French people that may be reading my work, so they don't argue in bad faith about my language competence.
